	

					sTROUBLESHOOTING

	According to TechTerms.com, troubleshooting is the process of diagnosing the source of a problem. It is used to fix problems with hardware, software, and many other products. The basic theory of troubleshooting is that you start with the most general (and often most obvious) possible problems, and then narrow it down to more specific issues. Troubleshooting is one of our subjects this semester and it is very interesting.

	Let’s have a trip down memory lane. We started the semester being paired up randomly with our classmates, and we were assigned different topics. Those topics are about different parts of the computer. Every reporter discussed the definition, history, functions of that specific part, and the simple remedies whenever it malfunctions or does not work properly. It gave us an overview, glimpse, and idea of each part. 

	The first topic reported is about microprocessor. I learned that it is an integrated circuit (IC) that contains all the functions of a central processing unit of a computer. I learned how it started, from calculating simple and limited operations to solving complex problems. The second topic is about random access memory (RAM). Next topic was the hard disk drive, then the keyboard, followed by mouse, then monitor, network interface card (NIC). After that, the small computer system interface (SCSI), power supply unit, expansion cards, video cards, router, and modem. The next topic was reported by my pair, Angelou Ganados and me, which is about the printer. I admit it, I really get nervous whenever I report but I have to do what I have to do so I did it. With all the nervousness, I explained what I have learned with my research about the topic, and my pair did as well. And then we were followed by the last topic which is about the scanner.

	Through listening and paying attention to all the reporters, I learned new things and therefore it was very informative and educational.

	After the reporting sessions, the class was divided into two groups, the first group was assigned to troubleshoot the Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ that is installed with Raspbian, a Debian-based computer operating system. On the other hand, the second group was assigned to troubleshoot the system unit. 

	I was in the second group. We powered up the system unit, we observed if there’s something wrong with its parts. We found out that the monitor didn't display anything, the fans functioned well at first but after a few seconds, the system unit/computer turned off so we concluded and thought that the power supply is faulty. We came up with possible or probable solutions to the problems based on our observations. We think that there must be a problem with the power supply so the cables should be checked if they are plugged properly. The power supply should be replaced if possible, if the problems persist, there might be a problem with the motherboard. On top of that, the system unit should be cleaned, the accumulated dirt and dust might cause the fluctuation of current or any issue.

	On the next meeting, the groups swapped, the first group was assigned with the system unit, and our group, the second group, was assigned with Raspberry Pi Model B+. Same with the system unit, we powered it up and observed what happened. We found out that the Raspberry Pi is fully functional because there is an Operating System (OS) installed in it the cables and wires are also fully functional, therefore, there is a continuous flow of electricity. With the right source and correct voltage, the unit would then be functional. And if it's connected correctly with the devices, the Raspberry Pi will run without errors. The mouse and the keyboard attached or connected to it are also functional. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with the unit and is functioning properly, error-free.

	Regarding the teaching experience of our instructor in this subject, Engr. Max Angelo Perin, I find him intimidating at first because he seemed to be a pro in our field or course, and I’m kind of shy to approach him because I might say something stupid or ridiculous. But as I get to know him, truly, he really is great in our field and I was wrong in my assumption (or first impression) that he is not approachable, because he really is approachable, kind and humble. He explains a topic well enough for us to grasp its concept. You can see it in his eyes that he’s equipped with lessons and learnings. Whenever we ask him about a topic we are confused with, he answers and explains it with all of his acquired knowledge and wisdom, he’s very helpful to his students, and basically to anyone else, which I think are important characteristics of a good teacher.

	When we had our midterm examination for this subject, I was shocked and mind-blown that some part of it was written in “Baybayin”. It just shows how patriotic he is to our country and I find it amazing and exceptional. Just wowzers. I admit it was kind of hard reading the items which are written in “Baybayin” but overall, it was a fun and refreshing exam. I also found out that he really is particular with grammar and syntaxes which I admire.

	Even if it is his first time teaching, I am amazed that he is already good at it, and I know he could be a better and more efficient instructor to his future students as the time goes by. I hope he would stay passionate about the things he loves and stays kind and humble towards his students and to everyone else, in general.

	To sum it up, I find this subject fun, informative, and educational. The learnings that we got from our instructor and our classmates would be utilized and used in our course and in our daily endeavors. I am looking forward to having more experiences like this, subjects like this and an instructor like Sir Perin.


